Hey everyone, welcome back to the
channel. For those of you who are new,
I'm Evan. I'm a former Meta Staff
engineer and the current co-founder of
Helloinview.com. If you're preparing for
software interviews, head over to Hello
Interview. We got everything you need,
overwhelming majority of which is free.
Uh, in this particular video though,
we're going to be covering the basics of
caching and specifically in the context
of system design interviews. And so,
we'll look at where caching fits into a
system. We'll talk about the most common
caching architectures, typical eviction
policies you'll want to understand.
We're also going to talk about the kinds
of issues that show up when you
introduce cashing. These are things like
consistency, stampedes, hotkeys, the
things that interviewers really love to
dig into and that you'll want to be
prepared for. And then finally, we'll go
over how to talk about cashing in an
interview, when to bring it up, how much
depth you should go you should go into,
and the things that interviewers are
usually looking for. So, this should be
fun. Without further ado, let's get
after it. Chances are you already have a
pretty decent idea of what caching is.
Uh but let's go ahead and start from
just the very basics really quickly to
make sure that everybody's on the same
page. And so a cache is quite simply
just a temporary storage that keeps
recently used data handy and close by so
that you can fetch it faster the next
time. So to see why this matters, let's
take a look at an example here and
consider the difference in speed between
where data usually lives in a database
and where it can live in a cache. And so
accessing data from disk like an SSD in
the case of a database takes about a
millisecond on average. Accessing data
from memory or RAM on the other hand
takes about a 100 nonds. This is roughly
10,000 times faster. Now that gap adds
up really quickly when you're serving
thousands of requests per second. And
caching takes advantage of that big
difference. It keeps copies of
frequently used data in a faster layer,
oftentimes memory, but not always. We'll
talk about that later on. So that
systems don't have to reach all the way
back into that slower source every
single time. So you have the basic idea.
Caching trades a bit of storage and
complexity for speed. Now the next
question is where should you cach your
data? And there's a few different layers
in your system where caching can live.
Each of which have their own set of
trade-offs of course. And so the first
one and by far the most common in system
design interviews is called external
caching. This is where you introduce a
dedicated caching service like Reddus or
memcache. It runs importantly on its own
server and manages its own memory and
it's totally separate from your
application or your database, right?
It's your own component in the system
here. And so when your application needs
data, it first checks the cache. If the
data is found there, that's a cache hit
and it returns your data instantly,
super fast. If it's not there, we call
that a cache miss and it has to fall
back to the database, fetch the data and
it stores a copy of that data back in
the cache and also returns it back to
the client. Right? Uh now the nice thing
here is that in a scaled system which
might have multiple application servers
like we represented here, all of these
different application servers can share
that same external cache. This way once
one server has fetched and cached the
data the others can all reuse it
instantly instead of all hitting the
database separately. Right? Because this
is a global view. It's a global cache
that's shared by all the different
application servers.
Now the second option
is what we call inprocess caching and
this lets you skip the complexity of
adding something like Reddus entirely.
Uh it's often overlooked to be honest
and I think in real system design
outside of the context of interviews is
probably overlooked more than it should
be but it can be incredibly effective.
Now, the key thing to note here is that
modern application servers usually run
on really big machines nowadays that
have plenty of memory and you can
actually use some of that memory in
order to cache data right inside of the
process. Uh, this is important because
it's by far the fastest kind of caching,
right? You don't have to go and have an
expensive network hop here to hit some
external cache anymore. The data is
already sitting in the same memory space
as your application, right? So, you
don't have that expensive network hop.
it's already right there where you want
it. But of course, this this comes with
trade-offs. And the main trade-off is
that unlike the external cache, each
application server has its own inprocess
memory. And so this means that if one
server caches something, the others
won't see it. So you can end up with
these inconsistencies or even wasted
memory if you're not too careful. And so
the chances are at least in the context
of a system design interview that you
probably won't need to bring this up
unless you're talking about a low-level
optimization or have a use case where
ultra low latency matters. For example,
if you need to cache config data or
small lookup tables that every single
request depends upon, then caching
within the application server makes
sense, but your default should remain as
external caching. Next up, we have what
are called CDNs or content delivery
networks. And so a CDN is a
geographically distributed network of
servers that can cache content closer to
your users. And I know that that sounds
fancy and fancier really than it is.
It's just putting servers around the
world so that they're close to the
people who need them. Here, we're not
optimizing for the difference between
memory and disk speeds like we were
before. Instead, we're optimizing for
network latency. So without a CDN, every
single request has to travel all the way
to your origin server. If you had a
server in Virginia, like was the case
here, think that this is S3 or some blob
storage, right? And your user is all the
way over here in Australia, then this
round trip could take 300 to 350
milliseconds. That's huge, especially
when we're talking about disk access
being just 1 millisecond. With a CDN, on
the other hand, that same request might
hit an edge server that's just a few
miles away, which may be 20 to 40
milliseconds round trip, which is a huge
difference. Now, the way that it works
is that when a user requests something
like an image, that request goes to the
nearest CDN edge server like we just
said. And if that image is already
cached there, it's returned immediately.
Perfect. That's the happy case. That's
the cache hit. If not, if it's a cache
mix, then the CDN itself goes and
fetches that media or whatever you're
looking for from uh your origin server
like S3 or whatever blob storage you
have. And then it's going to return that
back to the CDN. The CDM will then cache
it so that it has it for next time and
return it back to the client.
Now, modern CDNs, and this is something
people oftentimes forget, they can do a
lot more than just cache static media,
which is what they're most known for.
They can also cache public API
responses, of course, HTML pages, run
edge logic, even to personalize content.
But as far as a system design interview
goes, the most common and the most
impactful use case to bring up is on
media delivery. So things like images,
videos, or static assets, files, etc.
that you want to load really quickly
around the world. And so if you have
global users who are accessing media
regularly, then a CDN is probably a
great fit for you. Lastly, we have
what's called client side caching. So
this is when data is stored directly on
the user's device, either in the browser
or the app, which avoids unnecessary
network calls. So in web apps, that
might be something like the HTTP cache
or local storage within the browser
itself. for mobile apps, native mobile
apps. This could be data kept in memory
or even written to the local disk on
device. And it's nice because it's
obviously super fast. The data never
leaves the device. But it comes with a
downside, of course, and that's that you
have less control over it. Data can go
stale. Validation, freshness, all of
that is a bit harder. And so when it
comes to your interview, you'll see this
come up a lot less often. Um, usually
it's only relevant when your system
involves some offline functionality or
client heavy workloads. For example, if
a browser is reusing images it already
downloaded or an app like Strava caching
your run data locally while you're
offline and then syncing it once you're
reconnected. We have a problem breakdown
where we do exactly that. But for all
intents and purposes, this is the least
important for you to know as it pertains
to your system design interviews.
Really quick before we continue, let me
tell you a little bit about the most
popular feature on hello.com, guided
practice. It's an interactive tool that
lets you practice system design
interviews step by step using that hello
interview delivery framework. You're
going to walk through everything from
the non-functional requirements to the
core entities, API routes, all the way
through to your highle design and deep
dives, drawing on the whiteboard and
narrating your response. All while
getting real-time feedback on what
you're doing well and where you can
improve by a model that Stephan and I
have spent hundreds of hours tuning.
We've expanded the library to 25 of the
most common system design interview
questions now and we're constantly
adding more. So candidates absolutely
love this feature. I think you will too.
Check it out at hello.com. Link will be
in the description. Now that we've
covered where you can cache your data,
let's talk a little about cache
architectures. Cache architectures just
define how your application actually
interacts with the cache. And so
specifically, this is defining the order
in which reads and writes happen between
both your cache and your database and
your application service.
And so the most common caching pattern
by far and this is the one that you
should default to in your interview uh
is cache aside. And so cash aside, what
happens is that the application checks
the cache first. This is the one we
brought up earlier, right? If the data
is there, it returns it. That's a cache
hit. Great. If not, it goes and fetches
it from the database and then it stores
it in the cache and returns it to the
user. And so cach aside is great because
it keeps the cache really lean. You only
cache data when you actually need it,
right? We're only caching the things
that users actually requested. If a user
never requested anything, it never made
it into the cache. But the downside is
that a cache miss is going to add that
latency since the request then has to go
hit the database, request the data, the
more expensive operation, store it in
the cache, and return it back to the
user. Right? So, if you're only going to
remember one caching architecture from
this video, make it cash aside. This is
the one you're probably going to use in
the interview. U but it's important for
us to talk about some of the other ones
as well. Starting with write through
caching. And so with write through the
application actually writes directly to
the cache first and then the cache
synchronously writes that data to the
database before it returns to the user.
And so the write isn't considered
complete until both the cache and the
database have been updated. In practice,
this means that you need a caching
library or a framework for this part
right here that supports this right
through behavior. something that knows
to trigger your database write logic
automatically because tools like Reddus
or Memcache, they don't natively support
this. And so you need to either handle
this logic yourself in your application
code by writing to both at the same time
and there's all sorts of complications
that come from that or you'll want to
use a library something like Spring
Cache or Hazelcast which can
automatically do that right through for
you. Um, but the trade-off here becomes
pretty obvious and that's that you have
slower writes because you need to wait
for both of these to happen. Um, and
then also you pollute your cache with
all this data that may never be read
again. If we write everything to our
cache, then it might be data that nobody
ever actually accesses and we're just
bloating our cache for no reason unlike
cash aside that we talked about a moment
ago, right? Um, and then write through
also suffers from what's called the dual
write problem. This would be that if the
cache update succeeds but the database
write fails or vice versa then the two
enter an inconsistent state and so you
would need fancy retry logic error
handling all of these things to deal
with this but in a distributed system
this perfect consistency is incredibly
hard to achieve. So there's all sorts of
complications here. Now what should you
do in a system design interview? Well,
the reality is that right through is
much less common than cache aside
because it requires all the specialized
infrastructure and has all these tricky
edge cases around consistency. And so
you'd really only bring it up when reads
must always return the fresh data and
your system can tolerate some slightly
slower writes. If that's the case, this
could be a good fit. But if your mind is
going in this direction, really be sure
that you can convince yourself that cash
aside or some other uh designed system
doesn't already satisfy your use case.
Next is right behind caching, also
called write back sometimes. And it's
really similar to writethrough, which we
just discussed. But instead of updating
the database synchronously, the cache
writes to the database asynchronously in
the background. And so the application
only writes to the cache just like we
did for writethrough. But then the cache
flushes those updates to the database
usually in batches later on. And so this
makes writes much faster than writeth
through. We solve that problem, but it
introduces new risk. And that's that if
the cache were to crash or fail before
this flush, then we would have data
loss. You would use this only when high
write throughput is more important than
immediate consistency or close to
immediate consistency. And so, for
example, something like analytics or
metric pipelines where some occasional
data loss might be acceptable. But
here's the reality. While this pattern
is useful to know and if you are an
expert in caching and you have a use
case for it, by all means use it. If
you're a novice, I wouldn't suggest
using this unless you can strongly
justify it. There are other ways to
solve the problems that we just
discussed. Um, and you're probably
introducing or opening an opportunity
for more questions than your interviewer
than you would like. So, my honest
suggestion to you is probably avoid it.
The lesson we'll discuss is read through
caching. It's incredibly similar to
cache aside, the very first one we
talked about, except that the cache
handles the database lookup instead of
the application. And so on a cache miss
whereas before the application server
went and read from the database and
updated the cache and returned the
value. Now the cache itself is going to
do that. So we try to read from the
cache if we miss the cache goes and
requests the data from the database
stores it in the cache and returns it
back to the application server. You can
basically think about it like cach aside
but with the cache acting as a proxy.
And this is essentially how CDN's work
right as we discussed a moment ago. when
it when you have a CDN miss, it fetches
from the origin server, caches the
results, and then serves it the next
time. Um, now, as far as system design
interviews go, again, you'd really only
bring this up in the context of CDNs or
edge caching for most application level
caching. Cache aside is still the best
default because it doesn't require a
special framework or caching library to
handle this part right here, right? So,
you can just use Reddis, memcache,
something simple, um, and not have to
have some adapter right there. So,
zooming out now. Let's see if we can fit
all four of them in there. There we go.
We got cash aside, right through, right
behind, and read through. And if you're
anything like me, you're probably
thinking, "These names are super
confusing. How am I supposed to remember
all of them?" And I have good news for
you. You don't have to. Interviewers
don't care if you remember these exact
names or exact terms. What matters is
just that you can describe the behavior
clearly. And so, if you forget cache
aside, no problem. Just say, "I'll check
the cache first, and if it's not there,
I'll go to the database and then update
the cache." That's really all we as
interviewers are looking for. And so
it's always better to show that you
understand how caching works than to
just be able to memorize any of these
terms. So don't overwhelm yourself.
Understand how cash aside works. Most
importantly, be able to describe it.
Don't stress yourself on the naming.
Next up, let's talk a little bit about
cash eviction policies. So one trade-off
of storing data in memory instead of on
disk is that memory is limited. You
can't fit your whole data set in the
cache. At least you usually can't. And
so you need a strategy for deciding what
to keep and what to remove as new data
comes in. And that's exactly what your
eviction policies do. They determine
which items stay in the cash and which
ones get replaced when it fills up. And
so cash eviction policies are really
straightforward. And so we're not going
to make them any more complicated than
they need to be. There are four that you
should know about. Three of which you
might actually use in an interview. One
is just good to know because of its
simplicity. And so first we have least
recently used or LRU. And just like the
name suggests, this eviction policy
evicts items that haven't been used very
recently. In practice, it's often
implemented with a linked list or maybe
a priority cue that tracks the access
order, but you're rarely going to need
to discuss the level of detail, that
level of detail in a system design
interview. Implementation for eviction
policies is almost always out of scope,
right? And so the second one that you
have here is least frequently used, LFU.
really similar idea, but instead of
evicting based on recency, it's based on
how often something is accessed. And so
the least frequently used items are
evicted first, even if they were used
recently, right? So even if it was just
used once and that just used once was a
second ago, it's going to get evicted
because it was only used one time
compared to everything else that that
might have been accessed more
frequently. Um, third is first in first
out. This is that simple one, right?
It's exactly like what it sounds like.
your oldest item gets removed to make
space for your newest item. It's dead
simple and it's rarely the right choice
in in a system design interview. Um, and
then lastly, you have time to live or
TTL. And so here, each cached item has
an expiration time. And once that time
passes, say like 5 minutes, then the
cache will automatically remove it. This
is great for data that can go stale like
user sessions or API responses or any of
that. And so in system design
interviews, least recently used is the
most common and oftentimes the default.
Um, least frequently used makes sense
when your access pattern is highly
skewed, meaning there's a few items that
are read way more often than others. And
then TTL is super common as it's perfect
for when freshness really matters more
than recency or frequency. So far,
caching sounds pretty straightforward.
We store data in a faster layer. We read
it when we can, and everything just gets
quicker. But in practice, adding cash
introduces a whole new set of
challenges. And they're challenges that
interviewers love to ask about. And so
there's this famous saying in computer
science that some of you might have
heard, and it's that there's only two
hard problems in computer science.
Naming things and cash invalidation. And
that second one exists for a reason.
Once you start caching, new problems
start to show up. Things like uneven
loads, stale data, or unexpected spikes
in traffic. And so we're going to go
through a few of the most common issues
that you should be ready to talk about
in an interview. the ones that
interviewers will kind of be the most
likely to maybe probe into. And so let's
start with what's called a cash stampede
or oftentimes referred to as a
thundering herd. And so this happens
when a popular cache entry expires via
that TTL that we discussed a moment ago.
And suddenly a flood of requests all try
to rebuild that cache at the same time.
And so even if that window lasts just a
second, every single one of those cache
misses is going to hit our database,
turning one query into thousands or even
millions and ultimately overwhelming the
database. And so let me give a concrete
example. Imagine that you have some
website for which you cache the homepage
feed with a TTL of 60 seconds, right?
You don't want to cach it too long
because you don't want it to get too
stale. Um so 60 seconds is what you
choose. And then we get a 100,000
requests every second. And so all
100,000 requests because all users need
that home feed, they hit us in the cache
and everything works great. But after 60
seconds, it expires. And what happens
when it expires in the case of cache
aside is that we're then going to go ask
for it from the database and update the
cache. But in that moment, a 100,000
requests come into the cache, they all
fail, and then they all go try to hit
the database, and it could take the
database down, overwhelm it, and cause
cascading failures. Now, there's two
common ways that you can prevent this.
The first is what's called request
coalescing or single flight. Both fairly
fancy names, but the idea is actually
really simple. When a request tries to
rebuild the same cache key, or when
multiple requests try to rebuild the
same cache key, then only the first one
should work and the rest of them should
just wait for the results to come in and
then read from the cache. So that's the
first most common way to handle it. The
second, which is actually maybe equally
as common, I'll contradict myself, is
called cache warming. And the way that
this works is that instead of waiting
for popular keys to expire, waiting that
full 60 seconds, you can proactively
refresh them just before they do. And so
say at the 55 second mark, we could come
in here and refresh the feed. Um, thus
giving it another 60 seconds and
essentially preventing it from ever
actually expiring, right? We just keep
refreshing it every 55 seconds so that
it remains fresh and not stale. Um, but
it never expires and causes this
thundering herd. Next up is cache
consistency. And this is probably
actually the most common issues that
interviewers like to ask about when
caching comes up. And this happens
because the cache and the database could
return different values for the same
data. And it's really easy for this to
occur, right? Because most systems read
from the cache, but they write to the
database. And so this creates this short
window depending on your eviction policy
where you can have stale data in the
cache. And let me give you a concrete
example to make this click. Imagine that
you have some social network and a user
updates their profile picture. And so
that new value is written to the
database, but that old one is still
sitting out there in the cache. And so
now other users who are requesting are
hitting the cache and they're getting
image two. Oh, that's bad. Copy and
paste. Actually, let me update that.
Bang. Right. Or image three. Wait, no, I
want one image one. Silly. Okay.
[snorts] They're getting the old one,
the original one. Image one, despite the
fact that we had already updated the
database to image two. and they're going
to continue to read this value until
this ends up being evicted for some
reason. Right? Now, there's no perfect
fix to this. It very much depends on how
fresh your data needs to be. And that is
a case- by case basis, right? But
there's some common strategies in order
to answer the question if your if your
interviewer asks about this or if this
ends up being an issue. And so, the
first is to invalidate on right. And so
if consistency is really important here,
then when that profile picture came in
and we updated it in the database, then
we could also go delete that key
proactively from the cache. And this way
the next time a read comes in, well, we
would see that it's missing and we would
go grab it from the database and update
the cache. Right? That would be the
process of invalidating on write and
it's going to make sure that you're
reading the latest data for the most
part. You can also use just short TTLs.
And so if some stay on this is
acceptable, well, you can keep the cache
entry here, but have a TTL that's really
short. This is like what we had a second
ago, right? So in the case of that news
feed, we had a 60-second TTL, and maybe
we keep this around for 60 seconds, then
it'll be gone, and we'll go grab a new
one because we know this is something
that changes often. It's potentially
acceptable.
Alternatively, you might just accept
that eventual consistency is fine. And
this is totally valid. Uh this is for
things like feeds, analytics, metrics
where brief delay is totally acceptable.
And so if I was discussing this specific
problem that we have here, maybe I would
say, you know, we have a five minute TTL
on our profile data cached here. And
that's totally fine because what it
means is that some users will see a
stale profile image for five minutes.
And I'm okay with that because it's not
the end of the world. And it's fine if
they see an old image for a while. Life
is still going to go on. Okay? Right?
Maybe that's something that I could
justify based on the design and it would
be a totally valid justification to
make. Another common issue which you've
seen come up in many of the videos if
you've watched any of our other content
is called hotkeys. And so hotkeys is a
cache entry that gets way more traffic
than everything else. Even if your
overall cash hit rate is great,
everything's working as planned, that
single key can still become a large
bottleneck for your system. And so, for
example, imagine that you're building
Twitter or X and everyone is viewing
Taylor Swift's profile. that cache key
for her user data could be receiving
millions of requests per second and that
one key can overload a single Reddis
node or shard even though that shard or
even though that cache is technically
working as expected and so this of
course isn't just a problem with
caching. You've heard us talk about this
if you've watched our other videos in
other contexts too. Databases can have
hot rows or partitions as well, but it's
a common follow-up question in
interviews. Once you introduce caching,
especially if you introduced caching in
order to scale your reads, right? So,
caching does increase your overall read
throughput, you're now hitting memory as
opposed to disk, but it doesn't
completely solve the problem if there's
one piece of data that is so
overwhelmingly popular like with Taylor
Swift here. And so, there's a couple
things that you can do. The first and
and the most common solution is to just
replicate these hot keys. And so if
everybody is trying to know about Taylor
Swift, well, you can put Taylor Swift on
each of the different shards or each of
the different instances of the cache in
your cache cluster as you've scaled up.
Uh if what I'm talking here about
sharding and clustering is not familiar
to you, I'm going to link a video uh on
sharding below. But this is basically
the concept of a single cache isn't
enough. So we needed to add additional
instances of caches and shard our data
across them. meaning split our data
across them. Okay, so now back to the
issue at hand. Replicating hotkeys,
right? Means that we'll take Taylor
Swift and we'll put her on each of these
different caches and then now the
application server can just load balance
evenly amongst all of them. So instead
of all the traffic going to this cache
or this node, it could hit any of the
three here, right? Another fairly
popular thing to do is that you can add
a local fallback cache. basically use
that inprocess caching idea that we
talked about earlier in order to add a
cache in order to add a cache here,
right? And so this way we keep extremely
hot values like Taylor Swift in the
app's memory so that repeated requests
don't ever even need to go hit Reddus
and we just stored them locally here.
Um, hotkeys, let's see, to wrap up here,
they're a really good reminder that
caching helps us scale reads. U, but it
doesn't make your system magically
infinite, and interviewers love to probe
you on that. So, be ready. [snorts]
All right, let's wrap up with what is
probably the most interesting to all of
you who are preparing for your system
design interviews, and that's how should
you discuss caching in your actual
system design interview. There's two
things that we'll talk about. A, when
should you bring it up? And then B, once
you bring it up, how you should talk
about it or how you should introduce it.
Right? And so the first and most
important thing is don't just add a cash
for the sake of adding a cash. I see
this all the time. I see candidates who
just assume we always need a cash. They
throw it down without any proper
justification. And sometimes they're
wrong. And even if they're right, the
lack of justification was a red flag.
And so you want to bring up caching
typically when one of four things is
true. The first is that you have a
really readheavy workload that's
draining your database. And so you could
say something like we're serving 100
million daily active users, each of
which are making uh 20 requests per day.
That's two billion reads hitting the
database. Somebody check my math. I I
did that a little too quick in my head.
In any case, you know, it's more than
our database can handle. So let's put a
cache in front of it to take the read
load off of our database. Cool. For
expensive queries, you could say
something like in the case of newsfeed,
right? Computing a user's personalized
nude feed newsfeed is going to require
joining a bunch of posts, followers,
likes, all these things across multiple
tables. Uh, and that's going to be
really expensive to compute. And so what
we can do is just cache that newsfeed uh
store with a TTL of 60 seconds or so and
then serve it really quickly from
something like Reddus. And then high
database CPU. This isn't going to come
up in an interview because you don't
have these metrics. Uh, but certainly in
real life, if your database is starting
to peg out on its CPU, then it would
make sense to add a cache in front of
it. And then latency requirements. This
certainly will come up in an interview.
So in your non-functional requirements,
maybe you specified that you needed a
100 millisecond response time on some
API endpoint. Well, then you could argue
or justify that that database query is
going to take too long, especially if it
has expensive queries, and so you'll
have to cache it instead, right? The
pattern's pretty simple here. Identify
the bottleneck, be able to quantify it
with some rough numbers, then explain
how caching solves it. Now once you've
done that, you'll want to actually
introduce caching. And this is where you
talk about all the things that we
discussed in this video. And so the
first one being identify the bottleneck.
That's what we just we just mentioned a
moment ago. And then decide what to
cache. Not everything should be cached,
of course. Focused on the data that is
causing the issue that needs to be read
frequently. Maybe it doesn't change
often. It's expensive to fetch or
compute. These are the things that you
want to focus on caching. Think about
what the cache keys are going to be. be
explicit about this. Especially in
junior or more mid-level interviews, I
often see candidates say, I'm going to
add a cache here and that's going to
solve everything. And my follow-up is
always, well, what are you caching? What
is your cache key? Uh, what values are
in your cache? Right? So, make sure
you're proactive about that. The second
thing is to choose that cache
architecture. Right? So, this is
everything that we were talking about
with cache aides, rights, right behinds,
etc. So, you can say I'll use cache
aside on read. We check Reddis first. If
it's there, we return it. If not, we'll
query the database, store the results in
Reddus, and then return it back to a
user, right? And then you'll want to
mention the eviction policy. And so
you'll say, we'll introduce a cache.
We'll either use LRU, LFU, or maybe
you'll mention that you'll have a TTL
for preventing stale data, but provide
some justification there as it is
relevant to your system. And then
lastly, address any potential downsides.
And so don't necessarily just go through
the three that I mentioned, but think
about your system. Which of these are
relevant? Do I have a TTL on a popular
key that could cause a cash stampede or
a thundering herd? Do I have issues with
cache consistency where I'm going to
potentially be serving data that is no
longer fresh but instead stale? Uh, and
is that a problem for my system or is it
not? And do I have any issues maybe with
hot keys or anything similar? If you
discuss in this order these five things,
then you'll be a caching pro. Your
interviewer will be impressed. Um, and
you can continue to talk about the rest
of the design. I think the last thing
that I'll mention is that caching
usually comes up during your deep dives
when you're discussing scale. And so
when you get to your non-functional
requirements and you're either talking
about scale or latency, that's
oftentimes the most appropriate time to
bring up caching and try to figure out
where it fits into your system. And it's
super common in these interviews. So
it's a really good thing to have down
pat. All right, there you have it,
folks. Hopefully you found this useful.
Um, any questions, anything you think I
got wrong, go ahead and drop a comment.
I respond to as many of those as I can.
You'll have the Excalibur Draw that we
used here in the description. So, go
ahead and check that out. My LinkedIn is
there. Connect with me. Um, I respond to
as many messages as possible. I love to
hear success stories, especially if
you're finding what we're doing useful.
And most importantly, good luck with the
upcoming interviews. You guys are going
to nail it. You're putting the work in.
See you soon.